I CALL THE ORDER THE
REGULAR BUILDING MORE THE
PEOPLE'S MEETING FOR AUGUST
17TH, 2003
PAUL DARLING HERE
ROBERT HART, DAVID BERNSTORFF
HERE YOU FLAT HERE.
KEVIN COX BUILDING OFFICIAL
GLENN DEMPSEY, CITY PLUMBING
INSPECTOR RYAN MILLER HERE,
FIRE MARSHAL MICHAEL REDMANN
THERE MYSELF DEBORAH WILLIAMS,
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU
.
THE FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA FOR THE
MOTION TO MOVE THE AGENDA.
SECOND ALL RIGHT.
SO IF I WE HAD NO ONE FOR
PUBLIC COMMENTARY BY THE WAY,
THANK YOU.
POOL OF MINUTES FROM THE JULY
20TH, 2000 TWENTY THREE MEETING
I MOVED HERE FOR THE MANY
MINUTES SECOND MOTION TO
SUPPORT THOSE IN FAVOR.
I APPEALS ACTIONS AND SHOW
CAUSE HEARING YOU HAVE ONE ITEM
ON THE AGENDA THIS MONTH AND
I'M GOING TO DESCRIBE WHAT THE
PROCESS IS ABOUT HOW THE
APPEALS PROCESS WORKS.
BUT FIRST WE'LL GET A REPORT
FROM STAFF ABOUT THE PROCESS
AND THEN WE'LL HAVE THE
AFTERNOON COME UP AND PRESENT
THEIR REQUEST FOR A VARIANCE
AND THE BOARD WILL DISCUSS IT
AND ASK THE GRAPHIC ANY
QUESTIONS THAT WE MAY HAVE
ABOUT THE I HAVE A MOTION BY
THE BOARD WE'LL AND THEN
PROBABLY NEXT WEEK OR SO AFTER
BETTER WRITTEN BEFORE FROM THE
FROM THE BOARD SECRETARY ABOUT
THE RESULTS OF THAT JUST HAVING
A WRITTEN COPY OF THAT FROM THE
FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS
VARIANCE FROM EPA 23D ZERO FOUR
THREE FOUR TWENTY THREE NINETY
EIGHT PRINTED IN CIRCLE TIME
AND AGAIN AND WE'RE GOING TO
THANK YOU FOR COMING OVER THE
BACKGROUND ALL OVER THAT STAFF
REPORT A BUILDING SITE.
TWENTY THREE.
SIXTY NINE TWENTY THREE EIGHTY
THREE TWENTY THREE NINETY ONE.
TWENTY THREE NINETY SEVEN
VERDINE CIRCLER PART OF THE
DEVELOPMENT WITH MULTIPLE
BUILDINGS OF OUR TWO OCCUPANCY
AND TWENTY THREE EIGHTY VERDIAN
CIRCLE COMMUNITY CENTER IN THE
ATTACHMENT ONE FOR THE LIST
OF ADDRESSES UNITS AND THE
BUILDING PERMITS THESE UNITS
ARE IN MIXED USE A THREE AND B
OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATION AS
DESCRIBED BY THE 2015 MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE AND HAS INDICATED
ON SIGNED SEALED PLANS
SUBMITTED WITH THE PERMIT
APPLICATIONS PER THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN MICHIGAN PLUMBING
CODE FOR ALL THREE POINT ONE C
ATTACHMENT THREE EACH ARE TO
BUILDING MUST HAVE ONE
AUTOMATIC CLOTHES WASHER
CONNECTION FOR TWENTY DWELLING
UNITS THE APPLICANT IS
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM THE
REQUIREMENT THAT THE ONE PER
TWENTY DWELLING UNIT CONNECTION
PER BUILDING AND PROPOSING THE
CLOTHES WASHING EQUIPMENT TO BE
IN THE COMMUNITY CENTER.
THE TISCHER IS APPEALING BASED
ON THE PROVISIONS OF THE
CODE NOT BEING APPLICABLE.
OF COURSE THERE ARE THE
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE TRUE
ONE OF THE THREE STANDARDS A
TRUE INTENT OF THE CODE OR THE
RULES GOVERNING CONSTRUCTION
HAVE BEEN INCORRECTLY
INTERPRETED.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO
NOT APPLY AND OR AN EQUAL OR
BETTER FORM OF CONSTRUCTION
PROMOS PROPOSED TO CONTINUE ON
WITH STAFF RECOMMENDATION STAFF
RECOMMENDS THIS APPLICATION BE
DENIED AS IT DOES NOT MEET THE
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
THE CODE HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO
NOT APPLY IN LOCATING A WASHER
CONNECTION IN ANOTHER BUILDING
ON THE PROPERTY IS NOT
EQUIVALENT OR BETTER THAN THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN MICHIGAN PLUMBING
CODE .
THE CODE IS WRITTEN TO PERTAIN
TO THE BUILDING AND THE
REQUIREMENTS ARE TO BE
INTERPRETED SUCH PER SECTION
ONE ON ONE POINT TO THE TWENTY
FIVE FIFTEEN MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE IS NOT THE INTENTION
OF THE CODE THAT PER BUILDING
REQUIREMENTS BE MET IN ANOTHER
BUILDING ON THE PROPERTY THE
APPLICANT IS INFORMED THAT ONE
CONNECTION AND EACH UNIT WOULD
SATISFY THE REQUIREMENTS AND BE
EQUIVALENT TO OR BETTER THAN
WHAT THE CODE REQUIRES IN A
STAFF'S OPINION, HAVING TO MOVE
BETWEEN BUILDINGS IS NOT
EQUIVALENT TO HAVING FACILITIES
IN THE BUILDING WITH YOUR
DWELLING UNIT.
FURTHERMORE, THE DISTRIBUTION
OF DWELLING UNITS THAT HAVE
AUTOMATICALLY SQUASHER
CONNECTIONS AND THOSE WITHOUT
SEEMS ARBITRARY AND NEXT YOU
CAN HAVE THE ABILITY TO COME
UP, FIND ON YOUR OR HIGH.
SO WE HAVE DONE SEVERAL
SURROUNDING OR OTHER
COMMUNITIES DEXTERS FINISHED UP
ALL SIMILAR SCALES NOT ALL
RIGHT HAD SEVERAL WITH SIMILAR
SCALE AND WE'RE TRYING TO KEEP
RESIDENTS ON THE SCALE NOT A
BIG BUILDING WITH CENTRAL
CORRIDORS AND IN GENERAL SO
THERE IS NO COMMON SPACE IN THE
BUILDINGS FOR A COMMON LAUNDRY
THAT WOULD BE READILY
ACCESSIBLE TO ANY TENANTS.
SO WE HAVE ALWAYS THE LAUNDRY
IN THE COMMUNITY CENTER FOR
FOUR PROJECTS OVER 20 SOME
YEARS NOBODY HAS EVER ENTERED
THAT IT WAS A PROBLEM.
SO WHEN WE STARTED THIS PROJECT
WE DID THE SAME THING AND THAT
PROVISION IN THE CODE FROM WHAT
I CAN FIND GOES BACK AS FAR AS
I COULD FIND AN OLD CODE .
IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S CHANGED OR
NEW OR ANYTHING OR RECENTLY
ADDED IN.
SO BASICALLY WE HAVE WE HAVE
ADDED CONNECTION WASHER
CONNECTIONS IN THE UNITS IN
TRYING TO GET THROUGH THE
PERMIT PROCESS BECAUSE WE
NEEDED A LETTER FROM WAYNE
NICHOLS ON OUR FINANCING SO WE
CAN START WITH CONSTRUCTION.
WE ARE ASKING TO BE ABLE TO
REMOVE THOSE WASHER CONNECTIONS
AND USE THE CONNECTIONS IN THE
COMMUNITY CENTER AND WENDY WILL
PROVIDE SOME EXAMPLES OF WHY WE
HAVE CONCERNS WITH THE WASHER
CONNECTIONS IN THE UNIT.
WE DON'T HAVE COMMON AREA TO
PROVIDE WASHERS THAT AREN'T IN
THE UNITS WHICH WOULD BE A
LITTLE MORE ACCEPTABLE FROM A
MANAGEMENT STANDPOINT IF WE DID
WE WOULD LOSE A BEDROOM AND A
UNIT AND IT WOULD MEAN THAT A
COUPLE OF PEOPLE WOULD REMAIN
HOMELESS INSTEAD WHICH IS
REALLY NOT WHAT ANY OF US ARE
ABOUT.
I DON'T THINK.
AND THE OTHER THING IS ALTHOUGH
I I CAN'T ARGUE THAT THE CITY'S
INTERPRETATION OF THE CODE IS
WRONG, I THINK THIS PARTICULAR
PROVISION IS POORLY WRITTEN AND
NEEDS A LOT OF ELABORATION NOT
JUST THAT I WISH IT WOULD
CLARIFY THAT THEY COULD BE IN
ANOTHER BUILDING BUT THERE IS
NOTHING REQUIRING DRYER'S SO
THESE TENANTS COULD HAVE A
WASHER CONNECTION BUT NO WAY TO
DRY THE CLOTHES AND IT'S
GENERALLY JUST PROBLEMATIC IN
MANY WAYS FOR US WE BELIEVE
THAT WHAT WE ARE PROVIDING
WHICH WAS A CENTRAL LOCATION
WHERE THEY COULD GET ALL
OF THEIR LAUNDRY DONE IN A
RELATIVELY SHORT TIME MEETS THE
NEEDS OF THE TENANTS AND HAS
MET THE NEEDS OF HUNDREDS
TENANTS FOR FOR MANY YEARS OVER
OUR OTHER PROPERTIES.
THANKS.
YEAH.
I'M WENDY CURTIS JACKSON,
DIRECTOR OF REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT AT AVALON HOUSING.
WE OWN MANAGE PROVIDE SERVICES
AT THE GROVE AT VIRIDIAN AND
WE'RE REALLY EXCITED TO BE ABLE
TO BRING THESE FIFTY UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING ONLINE 30
WILL BE SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR
FOLKS COMING OUT
OF HOMELESSNESS.
TEN OF THOSE WHO ARE WORKING
WITH OZONE FOR USE COMING OUT
OF HOMELESSNESS AND WE'RE
PLANNING TO CLOSE OUT OUR
FINANCING BY THE END OF THE
MONTH.
THANK YOU FOR THAT AND THEN
START CONSTRUCTION IN
SEPTEMBER.
SO WE'RE JUST EXCITED ABOUT
THAT.
AND THANK YOU, DAVID, FOR ALL
YOUR WORK ON THIS TOO.
SO WE UNDERSTAND OBVIOUSLY
STAFF DIDN'T RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF OUR VARIOUS REQUESTS AND
WE'RE REALLY HOPING THE
BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS WILL
CONSIDER IT.
WE'VE BEEN DOING SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING FOR ABOUT 30 YEARS AND
REALLY DO RECOGNIZE THE
IMPORTANCE OF TENANTS HAVING
ACCESS TO LAUNDRY, YOU KNOW,
PARTICULARLY SUPPORTIVE HOUSING
HOUSEHOLDS THAT ARE COMING OUT
OF HOMELESSNESS.
A LOT OF FOLKS DON'T HAVE CARS.
THEY CAN'T GET THE LAUNDROMAT.
SO THAT'S WHY I LIKE DAVID
SAID, OUR NEW CONSTRUCTION
WE'VE ALWAYS BEEN SURE TO
INCLUDE ONSITE LAUNDRY THERE
AND SO IT IS NOTED WE'VE GOT
FOUR ONSITE NOT JUST HOOK UPS,
THE COMMUNITY CENTER BUT
WASHERS WILL BE PROVIDING IN
FIVE DRYERS THAT WILL BE
PROVIDING SO REALLY RECOGNIZE
THE IMPORTANCE OF HAVING THAT
ACCESS FOR FOLKS.
YOU KNOW, THE STAFF REPORT
MENTIONED THAT THE DISTRIBUTION
SEEMED A BIT SEEMED ARBITRARY
OF WHAT UNITS HAD IT.
SO IT'S REALLY PRETTY SPECIFIC.
I THREE AND FOUR BEDROOM UNITS
WE PROVIDE HOOKUPS AND WE
PROVIDE
WASHING MACHINES AND WE
PROVIDE DRYERS IN THOSE UNITS
THAT WE OWN WE MAINTAIN WE
REPLACE.
SO JUST RECOGNIZING THOSE
BIGGER SIZE HOUSEHOLDS ARE JUST
GOING TO HAVE THAT MUCH MORE
DRAW ON ALL OF THOSE UNITS.
THE ONE AND TWO BEDROOM UNITS
THOUGH WHICH DON'T HAVE THAT
SAME EXACT FOLDER DRAW.
THOSE ARE THE ONES THAT
THROUGHOUT IN HERE AT VERIDIAN
WE'RE LOOKING AT FOLKS GOING TO
THE COMMUNITY CENTER.
SO NOT HAVING HOOKUPS, YOU
KNOW, JUST USING THE COMMUNITY
CENTER PROVIDED ONE.
SO YOU KNOW, SO AN ADDITIONAL
LEARNING OVER THE YEARS ABOUT
THE NEED FOR LAUNDRY.
WE'VE ALSO CERTAINLY LEARNED
PROBLEMS THAT WE'VE HAD WHEN
WE'VE JUST PROVIDED HOOKUPS TO
THE TENANTS YOU KNOW, THE
HOUSEHOLDS ARE HOUSING DON'T
OFTEN HAVE THE FUNDS TO BE ABLE
TO PROVIDE A GOOD WORKING
WASHING MACHINE.
SO THAT CAN REALLY LEAD TO
LEAKS AND BREAKAGES.
AND THEN IF WE'RE NOT INFORMED
OF THE LEAKS THAT CAN COST
PROBLEMS MORE MAINTENANCE
PROBLEMS WITHIN THE UNIT OR IF
THEY'RE STACKED UNITS IN THE
DOWNSTAIRS UNIT IF WATER COMES
LEAKING BELOW AND IS SORT OF A
LOT OF CALLING OUR MAINTENANCE
IF HEY, CAN YOU FIX THESE UNITS
WHETHER OR NOT ARE SO IT REALLY
HAS LED TO PROBLEMS IN THE PAST
WHICH IS WHY WE MOVED TO THIS
WHERE YOU KNOW, HERE'S YOUR
LAUNDRY WE'RE PROVIDING WE'RE
HANDLING IT THREE AND FOUR.
WE'RE DOING THE UNITS BUT WE
HAVE LIMITED RESOURCES SPACE.
SO IT'S THAT'S WHY WE'RE NOT
DOING IT ABSOLUTELY EVERYWHERE
.
SO THAT'S WHY BOTH YOU KNOW,
IT'S THAT IF WE PREFER THE
COMMON LAUNDRY WE ALSO HAVE
ACTIVE CONCERNS ABOUT JUST
HAVING HOOKUPS, HOW THAT WOULD
SERVE THE TENANTS AND US
COMPARED TO HAVING OUR COMMON
ONSITE LAUNDRY.
SO I REALLY HOPE YOU'LL GRANT
THE VARIOUS REQUESTS.
WE REALLY DO FEEL THAT IT'S AN
EQUAL OR BETTER FORM THAN WHAT
JUST THE CODE SPECIFICALLY
WOULD HAVE IN THAT OUR PROPOSAL
TO HAVE FOUR WASHERS AND
DRYERS.
SO I THINK THAT'S A ONE TO SIX
RATIO WITH UNITS THAT DON'T
HAVE ANYTHING IN THEM, YOU
KNOW, PROVIDES MORE RESOURCES
THAN ARE REQUIRED BY CODE AND
ALLOWS EVERYONE TO AFFORDABLY
PROVIDE AND MAINTAIN HOUSING
BETTER AS DEMONSTRATED WITH OUR
STRESS, WITH OUR HISTORY.
SO JUST REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
CONSIDERATION OF THE VARIOUS
OF THE THREE FOUR BEDROOMS
TRADITIONALLY HAVE BEEN
REQUIRED BY MR WHO WAS OUR
PRIMARY FUNDING AGENCIES TO
HAVE LAUNDRY FACILITIES IN THEM
INCLUDING NOT JUST CONNECTIONS
BUT THE ACTUAL LAUNDRY
FACILITIES.
SO THAT'S WHY WE STARTED THAT
THE APPLICABILITY OF THE MR
RULES HAS CHANGED OVER TIME.
WE'RE NOT USING THAT SORT SO WE
HAVE TO DO THAT SPECIFICALLY SO
BUT WE DON'T NECESSARILY KNOW
THAT EARLY ON SO WE HAVE NOT
VARIED FROM FROM STARTING WITH
THAT ASSUMPTION THEY WOULD HAVE
LAUNDRY.
SO IT'S NOT REALLY ARBITRARY IN
ALL THE LOCATIONS ARBITRARY
BECAUSE MOST OF THOSE FAMILY
UNITS ARE AWAY FROM PLANET ROAD
AND CLOSE TO THE PLAYGROUND AT
THE COMMUNITY CENTER.
BUT THERE ARE SOME THAT ARE
FURTHER OUT JUST TO DISTRIBUTE
DIFFERENT TYPES OF UNITS
THROUGHOUT THE COMMUNITY.
THE QUESTION YOU'VE GOT I THINK
A LOT OF UNITS HIGHLIGHTED IN
WHICH YOU SAY ARE PART OF THIS
APPEAL YOUR CHIEF THERE'S A
BUNCH OF UNITS OF DEALS THIS
ARE SIMILAR OUR HIGHLIGHTED I
WAS CURIOUS WHY YOU LEFT OUT I
DON'T HAVE THE COLOR VERSION
OF THOSE SO I WAS JUST
WONDERING WHY THESE UNITS THESE
ARE THE FAMILY UNITS, THE THREE
OF THE FOUR BEDROOMS THESE ARE
ALL EVERYTHING THAT'S NOT
HIGHLIGHTED IN THE THREE AND
FOUR BEDROOM, OK?
AND ALREADY THIS YEAR I WAS
GUESSING LOOKING AT THE
FOOTPRINT SO IT MUST BE ARE
TOWNHOUSES OK TYPICALLY EXCEPT
FOR FLATS.
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK THE QUESTION IS FOR
BOARD
SO YOU'VE ALREADY PUT IN
THE CONNECTIONS.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO REMOVE AND
THE CONCERN PRIMARILY BEING
THAT POTENTIAL EQUIPMENT THAT
MIGHT BE INSTALLED BY THE
TENANT MIGHT NOT BE OF THE
STANDARD WHERE YOU FEEL
COMFORTABLE THAT IT MIGHT CAUSE
DAMAGE OR CONCERN.
THAT'S CERTAINLY PART OF IT.
THERE'LL BE WATER CONNECTIONS
IN THAT IF SOMEONE DECIDES TO
OPEN THEM OR JUST DUMP WATER ON
THE FLOOR AS WELL.
THE ONLY PLACE WE HAD SPACE FOR
THIS WAS IN THE STORAGE ROOM.
THERE IS NOT CURRENTLY BEFORE
DURING AND IN THERE WE COULD
CHOOSE TO ADD THAT AND ALSO
THERE'S A SIGNIFICANT EXPENSE
TO ALL THIS.
TWENTY FOUR UNITS AND IT'S
ABOUT FIFTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS A
UNIT FOR THE PLUMBING WORK AND
SOME OF THE ELECTRICAL AS WELL
AND I'LL JUST ADD RIGHT SO WE
STILL NEED TO START TO BUILD SO
IT'S IN OUR PLAN CERTAINLY BUT
IF WE DIDN'T HAVE TO DO IT WE'D
BE HAPPY TO BE ABLE TO USE
THOSE FUNDS ELSEWHERE SINCE WE
ALREADY HAVE THE COMMUNITY
CENTER PIECE BUDGETED
, THE
CURRENT DESIGN COMPLIES WITH
THE MICHIGAN HOUSING THREE OR
FOUR WOULD HAVE WORKED VERY
HARD ONE TO EVERY EVERYONE.
YES AND ACTUALLY MR RAWLS I
THINK ENCOURAGE A COMMON
LAUNDRY FOR THE REST OF THEM
AND YOU SAID THAT THIS HAS
OCCURRED ALREADY ANN ARBOR AS
WELL AS OTHER AREAS.
WE HAVE THE SAME SITUATION
CARROWAY WHICH WAS DONE OVER
TWENTY YEARS AGO PAULENE WHICH
WAS DONE TWENTY THIRTEEN AT
TWENTY THIRTEEN IN WHICH I HAVE
FOUND THE CALL CODE AND IT WAS
EXACTLY THE SAME LANGUAGE AS IT
IS NOW AND WE JUST FINISHED ONE
IN DEXTER UNDER THE CURRENT
CODE WHICH WAS NOT IN ORDER BUT
IT WAS WASHTENAW COUNTY AND
NOBODY RAISED THE QUESTION
HERE.
NO WE'RE NOT THE ENGINEERS HAVE
WORKED WITH NOT THE ANY
INSPECTORS OR PLAYING WITH
YOURSELF BUT THEY WERE ALSO THE
ONES WHERE YOU HAD THE WASHER
DRYER IN A SEPARATE BUILDING.
YES.
IN THE CENTER WHERE PEOPLE
WOULD HAVE TO CARRY THEIR STUFF
TO AND FROM ANY CONCERNS.
THE CURTAIN IF YOU HEARD OF ANY
CONCERNS WITH THAT I HAVE AND
I'LL SAY WE DO ALSO HAVE A
SERVICES TEAM THAT HELPS OUT
TENANTS WITH WHATEVER THEY NEED
TO MAINTAIN THEIR HOUSING
ESSENTIALLY.
SO IF THERE ARE LAUNDRY ISSUES
I'M SURE THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO
PROVIDE ASSISTANCE SUCH AS
ACCESS
.
THE UNITS ARE TWO, THREE ONE,
TWO, THREE UNITS.
THE TOWNHOUSES THAT HAVE THE
LAUNDRY IN THEM ARE MOSTLY TO
STORYTELLING.
ALL OF THE ONES THAT WOULD BE
GETTING THE HOOKUPS IN THE
UNITS UNDER THE SUPERVISION
THEY HAVEN'T TAKEN AWAY UNDER
THIS ARE STACKED FLATS OR A
UNIT ON THE GROUND FLOOR IN A
SEPARATE UNIT OF OF WE HAVE
FOUND IT WORKS MUCH BETTER TO
HAVE COMPLETELY SEPARATE
ENTRANCES AND NOT FORCED
TENANTS TO MIX.
WE HAVE LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES
FOR THEM TO COME TOGETHER AND
SOCIAL EVENTS BUT FORCING THEM
INTO INTERACTION CAN BE
PROBLEMATIC
.
>> SO YOU DO HAVE CONDITIONS IN
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE ONE VIA
BOTH ABOVE THE OTHER UNIT
LEAVING IT ALL FROM THE
GREATEST PUBLIC HOUSING
INITIATIVE BUT AND FOR
COMPLETELY OTHER REASONS THAN
LAUNDRY CERTAINLY HAS BEEN AN
ISSUE THAT OTHER BUILDINGS
AROUND YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE
THREE WAYS WE GRANT THE
VARIANCE WAS HOW DO WE ADDRESS
THE CHALLENGE IN MECHANISM BY
WHICH CHALLENGING FOR US TO
MAKE THE ARGUMENT AND IS
EQUALLY UNIFORM OR VERY
CHALLENGING FOR US TO MAKE AND
AND IT DOESN'T IT DOESN'T
INVOLVE THE INTERPRETER.
IT'S DIFFICULT FOR US TO THINK
SO THAT'S THE CHALLENGE THAT
OUR AND ALSO THE FACT THAT THIS
PRESIDENT AND WE'VE BEEN WE'VE
USED THAT PRECEDENT BEFORE WITH
HAND I BELIEVE.
YEAH, I THINK WE'VE DONE THAT
IN THE PAST THAT WE DON'T WANT
TO SET A PRECEDENT.
WE'LL GO AHEAD AND ORDER YOU
KNOW, I GUESS IT'S BEEN
APPROVED IN THE PAST BUT I
GUESS IT'S BEEN FLAGGED REALLY
REQUIRING AN ISSUE THE
GOVERNMENT
MY SENSE IS SEEMED
LIKE THE APPROACH WE HAVE NOW
IS TO PUT THEM IN THE UNITS BUT
NOT GIVE THEM ANY FIXTURES.
>> YOU KNOW, YEAH.
IF WE CAN AFFORD TO GIVE THEM
FIXTURES WE WOULD LOVE TO IT'S
JUST WE DON'T HAVE MONEY FOR
IT.
YEAH YEAH YOU DO THE THING
WITHOUT WITHOUT HAVING AND THEN
YEAH BECAUSE THEY'VE GOT A ONE
ON ONE OR SOMETHING AND THE
STAFF HAVE ANY FURTHER AND SO
THE CODE CALLS FOR A CONNECTION
DOESN'T NECESSARILY MEAN THAT
YOU HAVE TO HAVE A WASHER DRYER
DOES ASK FOR THE CONNECTION AND
THAT'S JUST FOR THE WASHER FOR
THE WASHER NOTHING TO DO WITH
THE POTENTIAL DRYER DOES THAT
REQUIRED IN THE CODE IT DOES
REQUIRE THE WATER CONNECTION.
SO IF THE DETERMINATION IS
EITHER THAT OR LATER THEY THEY
HAVE IT THERE.
I CAN'T TELL YOU WHAT'S
HAPPENED IN THE PAST.
HAPPENED IN OTHER COMMUNITIES.
I CAN'T TELL YOU WHAT'S
IT THAT COULD BE FROM NOT
HAPPENED IN OTHER COMMUNITIES.
REALIZING OR SEEING KNOWING THE
IT THAT COULD BE FROM NOT
CODE WE PICKED UP ON THIS HERE
REALIZING OR SEEING KNOWING THE
AND IT DOES WE BELIEVE THAT
CODE WE PICKED UP ON THIS HERE
IT'S FOR EACH BUILDING YOU MAY
AND IT DOES WE BELIEVE THAT
HAVE THEM AND CERTAIN UNITS IN
IT'S FOR EACH BUILDING YOU MAY
THE BUILDING BUT IF THERE ARE
HAVE THEM AND CERTAIN UNITS IN
UNITS THAT ARE MISSING THEM
THE BUILDING BUT IF THERE ARE
THEN I BELIEVE
THAT THE
CODE THE THE INTERPRETATION
WOULD BE THERE SHOULD BE
SOMETHING FOR THOSE OTHER UNITS
TO IMPLY AT LEAST ONE
CONNECTION IN THE BUILDING, ONE
IN THE BUILDING AND
UNFORTUNATELY WHERE THE
COMMUNITY CENTER IF YOU WANT
THEM TO DO ANYWAYS.
WELL YEAH.
I MEAN THE OPTIONS WERE GIVEN
BY THE CITY WHICH ARE PERFECTLY
REASONABLE WAS ONE IN THE
COMMON SPACE IN EACH BUILDING
OR ONE IN EACH UNIT AND IN THE
SPACE JUNK SPACE.
CAN I ADD TO WHEN WE'RE LOOKING
AT SORT OF EQUAL OR BETTER I
MEAN RIGHT NOW WE'VE GOT ACTUAL
UNITS IN OUR COMMUNITY SPACE.
THE OTHER WE'RE PLANNING WHEN
WE BUILD WE'LL HAVE THEM IN
THEIR I DON'T WANT TO SAY IF WE
DO THIS WE'LL TAKE THOSE OUT
AND WE'LL SAVE MONEY AND TRY TO
MOVE MONEY AROUND, YOU KNOW
WHAT I MEAN TO DO THESE.
BUT IF LOOKING KIND OF WHAT'S
EQUAL OR BETTER BECAUSE UNDER
THE CODE THAT WOULD BE ALLOWED
I WOULD SAY IT SORT OF FEELS
BETTER TO HAVE ACTUAL UNITS
HIGH QUALITY MAINTAINED OR AT
LEAST A CONSIDERATION WHETHER
YOU THINK THAT MIGHT BE BETTER
VERSUS JUST HAVING AND HAVING
WASHERS AND DRYERS VERSUS JUST
HAVING A LAUNDRY HOOKUP WITH NO
EQUIPMENT IN PEOPLE'S UNIT JUST
AS YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT IT.
I DON'T THINK WE'RE GOING TO
THEN TAKE IT AWAY BECAUSE WE'D
HAVE TO HAVE CONVERSATIONS AND
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE WOULD.
BUT JUST COMPARING THE TWO
BECAUSE THIS IS THE PLUMBING
CODE OR THE FRENCH WITH THE
MECHANICAL PART OF THE DRYERS,
I WONDER HOW MUCH GREATER
KNOWING THE CODE REQUIRES IF
YOU HAVE A WASHING MACHINE
PLUMBING CODE , WHAT THEY'RE
FEELING IS THE PLUMBING CODE .
YEAH.
AND THAT THE CODE IS ISN'T
CANNOT REQUIRE THEM TO PUT IN
THE CONNECTION.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT YOU
ORIGINALLY APPLIED NOT FOUND
ANYTHING IN THE MECHANICAL
CODE SAYING THAT WE NEED A
DRYER IN THE PLUMBING.
IT CERTAINLY DOESN'T SAY THAT
CODE DOESN'T SAY WE NEED
ELECTRICAL CONNECTIONS IN THE
WASHER EITHER.
I HAVE THE KNOW JUST SAYS
WASHER CONNECTION.
SO THAT SEEMED LIKE A LOGICAL
INFERENCE LONG AGO.
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S THE
INTENTION WAS TO HAVE A
CONNECTION FOR THE DEVICE THAT
THERE IS THE ABILITY TO UNCOVER
A DEVICE IN THE INDIVIDUAL
BUILDING AND THAT HAS ALL
OCCUPANTS ABLE TO USE IF THEY
HAVE THEIR OWN CONNECTIONS AND
OF COURSE THEY DON'T HAVE TO
USE IT BUT THAT'S THAT'S WHAT
STAFF HAS FOUND AN
INTERPRETATION.
CERTAINLY IF WE ARE AWARE
OF THIS FROM THE START WE COULD
HAVE SITE PLANNED AND COMMON
AREAS FOR LAUNDRY IN EACH
BUILDING BUT WE HAVEN'T IT
WOULD BE A SIX DELAY ON THE
PROJECT TO GO BACK AND DO THAT.
HOW
WHAT ARE THE TRAVEL DESIGNS
FROM ALL UNITS OF THE COMMON
BUILDING LESS THAN 250 FEET
LONG
FROM THE FURTHEST ONE IS
THE FURTHEST ONE AND ONLY IT'S
PROBABLY CLOSE TO 250 FEET.
>> YES,
DO YOU FIND IT MUCH
OF A WALK IN THE OTHER
FACILITIES?
YOU'LL WALK IN THE VALLEY,
DRIVE THE CAR OVER THERE WHERE
YOU ARE YOU GO FROM ONE TO THE
OTHER, YOU KNOW, AND IF YOU
DON'T HAVE CARS I GUESS I
USUALLY MOVE ON ARE ONE AND TWO
BEDROOM HOUSES ARE LESS LIKELY
TO HAVE CARS THREE AND FOUR
BEDROOM FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH.
SO I PRESUME THE ONE PERSON
HOUSE THEY TEND TO BE WALKING
OVER THE AREA IF YOU DON'T
INCLUDE THE CONNECTION DURING
THE INITIAL CONSTRUCTION AND
SAY SOMEBODY RENTS ONE OF THE
UNITS AND WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
CONNECTION, HOW DIFFICULT IS IT
TO ADD THE CONNECTION AFTER THE
FACT?
I THINK WE WOULD PROBABLY I
MEAN THE MANAGEMENT THE WAY WE
WOULD SAY WE DON'T HAVE A
CONNECTION I'M SORRY.
YOU'RE WELCOME TO USE THIS
UNLESS IT WAS IN ACCESSIBILITY.
YOU KNOW, IF IT WAS A THANK A
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION AND
THAT WOULD BE VERY DIFFERENT.
OBVIOUSLY IT'S DIFFICULT
BECAUSE THE GROUND FOR A LONG
TIME A SLAB THE UPPER FLOOR ONE
THIRD OF IN FLORIDA FOR
STRUCTURES GETTING A DRAIN TO
THE WATER IS FAIRLY EASY.
THE DRAIN CAN ACTUALLY BE A
CHALLENGE IF YOU'RE GOING TO DO
IT, YOU TEND TO DO IT NOW WHEN
YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN.
YEAH.
AND YOU SAY YOU'RE PUTTING THE
CONNECTIONS YOU'RE PUTTING IN
YOU'RE JUST TAKING A BEDROOM
BASICALLY.
NO, I MEAN WE HAD STORAGE ROOMS
AT EACH UNIT OK
AND ACCESS TO
IT FOR THAT AND IF IT DOESN'T
FOLD BUT IT WOULD BE PRETTY
DIFFICULT TO GET MUCH STORAGE
IN THERE ALONG WITH THE WASHER
AND ACCESS WASHER
IMPRESSIONS
FROM WHO BOUGHT
IT.
RIGHT.
GO AHEAD.
IN THE CASE BVA TWENTY THREE OH
OH FOR THE APPEAL OF THE
BUILDING OFFICIALS DECISION
THAT WE WORK TWENTY THREE SIXTY
NINE.
TWENTY THREE EIGHTY THREE
TWENTY THREE NINETY ONE TWENTY
THREE NINETY SEVEN TWENTY THREE
EIGHTY BURIED IN CIRCLE BE
GRANTED RELIEF FROM TABLE FOR
THREE POINT ONE OF THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN MICHIGAN PLUMBING
CODE AND THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS REVERSES THE
BUILDING OFFICIALS DECISIONS
FOR THE REASONS THAT THE
APPLICANT HAS PROPOSED AN EQUAL
OR BETTER CONSTRUCTION
STIPULATIONS ARE THAT THERE'S
POTENTIAL CONCERN FOR CERTAIN
FUTURE LEAKS AND DAMAGE TO THE
UNIT IF YOU INSTALL THE
CONNECTIONS NO REQUIREMENT TO
INCLUDE WASHERS AND DRYERS
EQUIPMENT FOR THOSE UNITS
OF DUTY DUE TO PRECEDENT IN ANN
ARBOR AND A POTENTIAL BENEFITS
TO THE RESIDENTS OF THE UNITS
OF THESE ONE AND TWO BEDROOM
UNITS.
MOTION IS TO GRANT THE VARIOUS
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION THAT CAN
BE PUT IN A CLAUSE IF WE GIVE
YOU DIRECTLY.
BUT OF COURSE IT SAYS THAT THIS
IS A ONE TIME THIS IS MEANT TO
BE ONE TIME AND NOT NOT TO
ESTABLISH TO ESTABLISH
PRECEDENT
IN WRITING.
SO I GUESS WE HAVEN'T SETTLED
THIS IS A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT TO
ADD SOME VERBIAGE THAT THIS
APPEAL IS NOT TO BE USED AS A
PRECEDENT AND
SO WE HAVE SO IF
I INCLUDE THIS IS CONSIDERED A
ONE TIME VARIANCE AND NOT TO BE
USED AS PRECEDENT FOR FUTURE
PROJECTS, IS THAT ACCEPTABLE?
YEAH, WE HAVE THREE MORE
MEMBERS PRESENT TODAY.
WE NEED TO HAVE AT LEAST TWO
OF BOTH.
WE WANT TO GRANT RIGHT NOW
RUNNING IN THE APPEAL ARE
GRANTED LANGUAGE ANOTHER
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
YEAH,
WE'RE READY FOR A VOTE
YES VOTE IN FAVOR.
I WOULD VOTE SO I WOULD LIKE TO
PROBABLY KNOW WHAT THINK
HAPPENS ALL THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
APPRECIATE YOUR CONSIDERATION
.
YOU KIND OF GET YOUR
INFORMATION BEFORE YOU THANK
YOU.
I'LL GET TOGETHER WITH THE
AFTER I MAKE SURE SHE CAN READ
IT.
OK, THANK IF THAT WAS TWO TO
ONE RIGHT DO YOU WANT CORRECT
OK
THERE ARE NO OTHER NEW
ACTIONS ON THE ON THE AGENDA
ALL BUSINESS, ANY OLD BUSINESS,
ANY UPDATE FROM THE VARIANCE IN
LAST MONTH THAT'S STILL MOVING
ALONG ON BROADWAY OR SOMETHING.
SO ANY NEW BUSINESS AT THE
BACK?
NO MOTION TO ADJOURN AND MOTION
TO ADJOURN SECOND I ADJOURNED
TWO OR THREE THANK